Cool, questions, comments,
concerns, cries of outrage,
someone wanna yell at me about
my opinions on microfrontends.
So I won't hear it.
[LAUGH]
>> Could you explain the return null?
>> It basically saying at any given point,
if you wanna kinda opt out or not,
theoretically returning undefined
will do the same thing.
It's basically like I don't,
what is this one now?
I was just TypeScript or
eslint yelling about something else.
It's basically a way to go,
you can return undefined from this one.
It's a way to say I actually
don't wanna continue, right?
The resolve ideas I believe, if I'm not
mistaken, in case you have like, yeah,
with the SSR flag or
something along those lines.
It's basically it's like I don't wish to
continue down this path with this plugin
at this point,
with this file through this plugin.
>> Is writing your own plugin
better in terms of maintainability?
I saw some plugins with no
action in over two years.
>> I mean, you maintaining it
versus nobody maintaining it.
Yes, right, now the big,
the big question you have to ask
yourself if nobody is maintaining it, yes.
However, are you going to be the next
person who is nobody maintaining it?
You know what I mean?
Yeah, especially if there's
something that doesn't work,
there's nothing stopping you
from forking it either, right?
But think for the common ones, again,
anything that is either nothing that
exists that is maintained,
yeah, write your own.
Should you write your own?
There are more than one markdown
plugins out there, right?
There's more than one YAML plugin.
Do we need another one?
Unless there's something specific
that you need, maybe it's like, yoh,
we use this YAML library that
formats the stuff in this way.
Yeah, you can totally wrap it
in a plugin super easily, but
if it isn't actually maintained one, use
that, but if it's not maintained, yeah,
absolutely, that's kind of the point.
It not existing and
one that doesn't work at as a longer
maintained are basically the same thing.
>> Is microfrontends and
Module Federation the same thing?
>> No, right?
I mean, what is a microfrontend and
we can cut all this.
[LAUGH] For me, l sharing an
navbar across multiple repos,
which have always been separate
that I don't own the docs repo.
I don't own the, but to keep a navbar in sync
totally cuz they are separate.
They both they predate any of us, right?
It's not necessarily an architecture that
point they're totally separate properties.
Using it for that make sense.
Some no, you can use it for other things.
It is most commonly used in microfrontend
architectures.
Hopefully, right,
in this kinda whirlwind tour from the very
simplest you need almost nothing to get
started all the way through to you
can customize literally anything.
You can reformat images on the fly.
You can host pieces of code
that can be remotely fetched.
You can create libraries, right?
Vite and we did all that in a day, right?
A few hours, really, all total.
And both the flexibility and the
simplicity and the speed because Vite is
able to leverage a lot of modern web
technologies to not do a lot of stuff.
Let the browser use its native bundlings,
particularly when we're in development
because we know we're
using a modern browser.
I don't know if any of y'all choose
to use IE6 while developing.
I use Safari because I don't trust that
anyone else on my team is checking stuff
on Safari and I'm the manager.
So, but generally speaking, and
Safari supports these modules,
you have all this stuff in place so
it becomes wildly fast.
And, I think we don't spend enough
time thinking about the faster
something is in development,
the quicker you can make decisions.
If something takes ten seconds to load,
right, versus one second,
especially if on a second monitor,
you change code,
you see it instantly, as you're
changing something trying to get.
Or your tests are running or something
along those lines, that feedback loop, if
you cut that down by 50%, 75%, the number
of decisions you can make in a day go up.
Because unless you write perfect
code the first time every time,
which at least I've
demonstrated I can't do.
All right, unless you're better than me,
which you might be.
Right, it's usually about do something,
get feedback, and see bunch of red, right,
realize you've made booboo, right?
Look at booboo, fix it the quicker,
you can get that feedback loop, I think we
underestimate the power of sometimes being
a faster developer is not thinking faster.
It's just finding out that you made
a bad thought faster, right, and
recovering from it.
And the more you cut that down,
the more powerful it is, and
the less time you spend fighting
with your build system, right?
Even as we're doing every wild
thing that we could think of in our
time together is still relatively
with a lot of things straightforward,
right, especially as I'm talking and
typing at the same time, right?
And those times that gets you back to the
important part of the application cuz I've
lost weeks of my life fighting with
certain build tools that I won't name.
Multiple of them, honestly,
a decade's worth of them.
I could name them all, and
it'll just make me sad.
A lot of them start with the letter G,
multiple of them,
some I'm not doing this right now.
[LAUGH] But
the idea that we have a place where we're
using modern web platform features.
We've got super fast tools built in
Go and Rust.
We've got the idea that there's ergonomics
around how simple can this be and
out of the box it works.
And then you can extend
it as much as you want,
I think is a wildly powerful pattern.
It's the first time I don't hate a build
tool after using it for two years.
>> Does it make sense to invest in
learning the lower-level rollup
functionality as well or does Vite
provide enough transparency via rollup
options?
>> Yeah, effectively,
if you're writing a Vite plugin,
you're writing a rollup plugin, right?
Vite adds two or three extra things what
your Vite configuration is cuz rollup
doesn't have the idea of a server, right?
It's just a build tool.
So Vite adds a few things.
You're effectively writing a rollup
plug-in for really reals, right?
There's a few, I think it's true to say
all rollup plug-ins are Vite plug-ins but
not all Vite plug-ins are rollup plug-ins
cuz they have a few extra hooks in them.
And for the little options, external and
stuff along those lines, but
generally speaking, in my experience.
And again, the experience of using it for
two years but in my own use cases,
right, is that if you are looking
up how to do something in Vite and
it involves a roll-up option.
You'll find it looking for
how to do it in Vite.
You don't I mean?
I would say in the plugins,
if you go to the plugin docs for Vite,
they're like go read the roll-up
plug-in docs first, right?
So yes, in that case, but I think
the general day-to-day usage, I mean,
there's a whole bunch.
I've read every single
Vite option that there is.
How many of them did you see me use today?
Not that many, right?
Cuz I think a lot of the power is that
in how I write my JavaScript code by
kind of using modern conventions,
I get so much for free.
If there's a problem you need to solve,
you go into the Vite's docs, but yeah,
do you wanna use lightning
CSS instead of post-CSS?
Cool, there's an option for that.
There's all sorts of
little things like that.
Most of those I don't tend to tweak.
I spoke it.
I could pull up the Vite config,
there's the pattern is
the app makes sense, and
leaning into stuff like the glob imports
and stuff along those lines make sense.
But in terms of getting
all the way to the bottom,
I would say if that's the intellectual
exercise you wanna do go for it.
I don't think that you need to per se.
I think we covered the greatest hits
of everything you need to know today.
But yeah, you might have a very esoteric
use case or something off the beaten path,
I do, right?
Those are not the things I chose to
include because if it's something that
only really applies to the unique
nature of the business I'm working on,
it's felt like the not
the best use of your time.
Did I have a section on
writing your own JSX parser?
Yes.
Did I even choose to include it?
No.
Right, because how many of y'all
are gonna do that tomorrow at work?
Nobody, right?
Could you write your own hot
module replacement logic?
Yes.
Should you?
Probably not.
Right, so there are, I think,
if you're gonna build your own library,
your own framework, yes.
Right, in terms of the building apps,
I think some of the patterns and
some of the features that make your life
easier, the ability to change images.
Then figure out the post-CSS
plugins you might need,
like, you wanna do stuff with fonts
that makes it a little bit easier.
All that stuff is I think powerful,
but getting all the way to the bottom.
Unless you're building a library, a lot of
this stuff is in there for library and
framework authors.
They are being used, just not by you.
Thank you so much, and I hope you
get to use this in the applications
you're building and I hope it speeds
up your development workflow.
[APPLAUSE]